---
id: version-0.1.0-motivation
title: Motivation
original_id: motivation
---

`Kunyora` was born from the need to write highly disposable restful code and the need to reduce `network-response` time. For now, we have been able to achieve the `disposable` need of the software, however we are currently carrying out series of research to make sure that the network-response time is greatly reduced; these we would add to the client side code as soon as we are done. please refer to the [Vision](vision.md) section of the documentation to get a full glimpse of what is possible now and the future expectations of the library.

However, there are lots of other factors which motivated us into building the library.

## Reducing thenables boilerplate

Before Kunyora and React-Kunyora, we found out that teams across the world use the `axios` library in interacting with their restful backend. Doing this muggles their code with lots of `then and catch` promises calls as the UI's need to be aware of the states of the request made; such as the `loading and error` state. Therefore we came up with a simple approach which wraps the `axios` library and reduces data muggling. The best part is that you hardly need to **manage** the states of your application, instead you **handle** feedback especially when using a client based library like `reactJs`

## The Need to Compose UI's with data

When building applications that do not use any view based library, `kunyora` makes it very easy to handle the change in state of your application from a single place. This can be carried out using the `thenables` and `catchables` method exposed by the `client` instance created by the library. Please refer to the [Kunyora docs](kunyora_tutorial.md) for more details. However, view based library integrations make it very easy to compose UI's with data. Please check the [react-kunyora docs](query_component.md) for more details.

## Seperation of concerns

Concerns can now be seperated. Now, you do not need to think about managing the different states of your application. `kunyora` and its client based integration provides you with ways to manage the state of your `request` globally using a store. This can be done by supplying an initial config of `nouns` and leaving the library to handle the rest under the hood for you.

## The need for a faster Web.

Even if this has not been added yet into the library, it acts as one of the major motivation for building the library. `kunyoraClient` would sometime in the future act as a decoder for response generated by the server which has already been compressed/encoded by the future `kunyora-server` library. Visit the [Vision section](vision.md) for a more detailed explanation on this.
