---
id: motivation
title: Motivation
---

`Kunyora` was born from the need to write highly declarative restful codes and the need to execute `client-server` request in a faster pattern. For now, we have been able to achieve the `declarative` need of the software, however we are currently carrying out series of research to make `client-server` interacting appear faster; these we would add to the client side code as soon as we are done. please refer to the [Vision]("vision.html") section of the documentation to get a full glimpse of what is possible now and future expectations of the library.

However, there are lots of other factors which motivated us into building the library.

## Reducing thenables boilerplate

Before, `react-kunyora`, we found out that teams across the world use the `axios` library in interacting with their restful backend. Doing this muggles their codes with lots of `then and catch` promises calls as UI's need to be aware of the states of the request made; such as the `loading and error` state. Therefore we came up with a simple approach which wraps the `axios` library while providing this same functionality and states to the UI. The best part is that you hardly need to **manage** the states of your application, instead you **handle** the state expecially when using a client based library like `reactJs`

## The Need to Compose UI's with data

Using, when building applications that do not use any view based library, `kunyora` makes it very easy to handle the chnage in state of your application from a single place. This can be carried out using the `thenables` and `catchables` method exposed by the `client` instance created by the library. Please refer to the [Kunyora docs](kunyora.md) for more details. However, view based library integrations make it very easy to compose Ui's with data. Please check the [react-kunyora docs](query_component.md) for more details.

## Seperation of concerns

Concerns can now be seperated. Now,you do not need to think about managing the different states of your application. `kunyora` and its client based integration provides you with ways to manage the state of your `request` globally using a store. This can be done by supplying an initial config of `nouns` and leaving the library to handle the rest under the hood for you.

## The need for a faster Web.

Even if this has not been added yet into the library, its still acts as one of the major motivation for building the library. `kunyora` would sometime in the future act as a decoder for response generated by the server which has already been compressed/encoded by the future `kunyora-server` library. Visit the [Vision](vision.md) for a more detailed explanation on this.
