---
id: vision
title: Vision
---

For now, `kunyora` fulfils one of its purposes which is `A flexible Rest Client for Javascript web and native applications`. We like to call this the `[Now]` purpose of the library. The long term vision of this library is to act as a client based middleware and decoder for responses that would be generated by the server based on an initial sent request.

The library would be able to intercept responses generated by the server and then decode this response instantly before feeding them to the application for use; all still in a declarative manner. We believe that two things make great web apps; `Performance and speed`. `Performance` defines how effective your web applications carry out client based computations. Here, we consider things like the time taken to `diff the dom` and make commits. client based libraries like AngularJs, VueJs, ReactJs, backbone and Ember have all been very effective in taking approaches that solves this problem using either 2-way or 1-way data binding.

`Speed`, on the other hand defines how fast your application can be in every way. Either from making some initial request to download `css and js` files or downloading `images`. We believe that this needs to be addressed especially in cases where the developer has access to where this resources are stored and he manages them. Let's take a quick detour into what the web looks like as of today.

## A QUICK DETOUR (THE WEB AS OF TODAY)

Basically, websites are made of 4 major resources `images, css , js and text`. There is a need for browsers to carry out highly computative task especially in areas that deals with downloading this resources or carrying out computational Javascript operations. In developing countries, the `network-response` time of users is very appaling as users need to wait for several minutes to download these resources and see the beautiful web apps created with them. It's one thing to create a beautiful web app and its another thing to make sure that your users get to use this and feel less frustrated.

Hence the need for `kunyora`. we are currently reseacrhing into different fields to see how we can reduce the time needed for a client to wait per request sent, using methods such as compression, data transformation and encoding, and we believe that some of this techniques should arrive as a major change to the library soon before its initial launch. However, to make this more efficient the library would be integrated with it's server based counterpart.

For now, you can follow [Anifowoshe Gbenga](https://twitter.com/David_Ani_s) on twitter for updates on the kunyora library and its view integrations and also check our [blog](/kunyora/blog) for write-ups and latest updates.
